So we're at the point that we're able to create a quote here, we're binding it with two-way data binding to the
quote property,
now I want to emit that to send this new quote to the parent component which in the end even though
I haven't embedded it yet will hold
the new quote here
and which handles all our quotes.
So in new quote here, in create new, I will call this emit, $emit to emit the quote added event,
name is of course totally, you're free to choose whatever name you like,
and there I will add this quote.
Remember, this quote will be updated all the time because we're binding it with two-way binding.
Therefore I will also reset this quote after sending it so that the form gets cleared. With this I'm emitting
this, now in my app.vue file, in this root component, there
I want to implement this new quote component. To do so and keep in mind in new quote, we do have a separate
row, so to do so here I will simply add a new component,
therefore adding a new import
first, new quote from NewQuotes.vue and then down there, register it as a local component, app
new quote shall be new quote here and then adding the selector up there,
app new quote, like that.
If I save this, we already see it here,
looks a bit different than before but that's okay,
we do have the button here, we can create it and now it would be nice to
well actually listen to that event
so that
if I do enter a new one, well it gets added to the array.
Let's do this too.
I already do emit the event here, quote edit,
therefore in the parent component,
I can simply listen to quote edit on the selector and then execute new quote
for example, whatever you like as a name. I will add my methods object here to set up the new quote method
and of course here, I actually do get some data passed, the data I do get passed
is the quote which was added,
so I want to fetch this here in this component too and use it down there in the new quote method.
Well we learned that vuejs will automatically provide us this data state on our custom event,
so here with new quote, I can simply access the quote,
I don't need to change the event up here, though I could also set it like this,
$event like that but I don't need to do this,
vuejs will do that implicitly. So here i can then use this new quote
and how do I want to use it?
I simply want to say this quotes, whoops, quotes push quote, like that.
Well with this, let's see if this works,
if I add something new,
wou see it gets added here. So we get this,
what's missing is the functionality to delete a quote,
this info box at the bottom which tells us that we can delete a quote
and of course, the logic to handle our state, to count how many quotes we have and to show the progress
bar.